things are changing so quickly right now
it's hard to keep up but to see like
real UI AI usage in the real world like
I think it's still a process for a lot
of our customers and for a lot of other
sass venders we've been experimenting
with a lot of AI features and
functionality and we actually saw more
than 17 million AI actions in the
product in the last few months so
definitely it feels like we found the
use case for a lot of our customers and
I think something that might be a little
bit unique in how we we've done it is
that instead of forcing them to use AI
or create a new feature for them we just
said we're going to help you automate a
lot of what you already do uh with
Monday or in your business using AI
hello everybody at saster we are here
with one of our favorite Founders at one
of our uh favorite companies we have Aon
zimman co-ceo of Monday Aon and his
co-founder Roy have been kind enough to
be part of saster since the earliest
days we talked about it before we've
done two two great sessions with him
Iran came to saster annual a little
while back live and it was one of my
favorite sessions they came as attendees
to saster annual I think in 2017 in the
crazy days they were coming up on 10
million ARR fast forward to today fast
forward to today in eight years Monday
went from one billion one million to
over one billion ARR in in eight years
and in the early days maybe even until
18 months ago I would say underestimated
would you agree oron underestimated by
many yeah yeah you can Define it this
underestimated right classic story of
having trouble getting funded in the
early days right despite insane growth
and also because Monday many of Monday
but don't use it you know it for CRM
project manager others but 70% or so of
customers are outside of tech is that
still about right isn't it donon yeah
this is still true to this yeah still
true so while many of us back in the day
may have may have not totally gred the
machine that is Monday right in in the
rest of the world everyone from churches
and small businesses to larger
Enterprises now became Monday super fans
while in many cases others were fighting
for that vocal but slim slim segment of
tech so it's always great and I want to
dig in with Iran but there's something
I've been saying for a while on sasra
for almost two years actually I've been
posting a lot of the quarterly results
and Monday just released its earnings
tell me if I get it wrong or on it
doesn't matter if I'm a little bit off
but 1.1 billion in Revenue growing 32%
at this scale 32% at this scale think
about what that is 30% free cash flow
which I want to talk about 22% new
customer growth you're still finding new
customers everywhere at
250,000 and even though you're going
more Enterprise with an S&B core 110%
nrr and that's not just that wasn't just
2021 it wasn't just today it was when
people thought there was a downturn and
Monday is always consistent and so what
I've told folks who are saying oh it's
hard out there it's gotten hard
I say this that only some folks get it
go find your
Monday go find because Monday like it's
always been an engine and I want to talk
about that in a minute but any meta
takeaways for folks on how you've been
able to maintain that engine right even
as others have more
variability um yeah so you mentioned a
lot of kind of financial metrics but I
think it eventually it all boys down to
the your customer base the product uh
the expansion expansion potential and
and I think maybe what's a little bit
unique about Monday is the variety of
customers not just the you know total
number of customers which is relatively
High over
250,000 but the variety across different
Industries different markets different
countries geographies and I think this
diversity in a way creates stability in
a business because you're not overly
exposed to one business sector For
Better or Worse right I think a lot of
companies who build specifically for TAC
enjoy the TAC boom in in 2020 or 21
there's a Fleek site to that as well so
I think eventually companies who build
for the actual industry or the some
representation of the variety of
businesses we have out there enjoy more
stability over time yeah yeah it's
interesting we I recently we recently
did a deep dive from Tui from procore
which is just for construction and in 08
and 09 they had zero
Revenue people stop building and they're
doing great today but there is some
sensitivity because of interest rates
right so there's but you've got the
diversity across the base do you look at
a curiosity do you look do you see a lot
do you track it because you guys have a
lot of dashboards analytics do you see
little pulse checks for different
Industries like where little segments
are at a macro Level under and do you
change anything we don't change anything
because I don't think we have like
specific offering for specific
Industries but definitely you could look
at the Monday customer base or momentum
we have in different countries or
different Industries and that's might be
a leading indicator for other kind of
macro events uh that we can anticipate
or the war is going through but I really
feel that because of the ease of use and
the variety of use cases that we have we
do represent the broader economy and um
we ride in that wave so I think that
contributed to our stability yeah in
addition to that I will say that having
you mentioned those dashboards we have
across the office I think that we have a
lot of visibility into the what we call
the machine or the engine of the company
and that also really helps stabilize the
company over time because a lot of
things as there's a lot of moving Parts
in in Enterprise SAS companies and
things can go wrong sometimes they
improve and you don't know what's the
underlying reason for that so I think we
always has like a like a pulse check of
what's going on and we have more
transparency into the business and
what's working what's not so definitely
helpful over over a long period of time
just you guys have been so analytic
since day one right which which if we
have time I'll touch on at the end but
at your scale at 250,000 customers 1.2
billion do you pretty much know how
every quarter is going to be and your
job as Co is next year F six quarters
out like you you sweat any given quarter
anymore within within a within a range
in a way I would say there some some
flexibility within the quarter I think
what's great about sass mes and one of
the reasons why at a as a category we
enjoy relatively High multiple is the
predictability of the business once you
go into quarter once you publish the
results you already halfway into the
quarter and SAS is a very predictable
business you have anr you have your or
customer base in large numbers how they
going to behave so I think that's one of
the great things about SAS companies and
specifically for Monday because of that
we have high prediction ability into the
quarter and you can see a lot of SAS
companies when they give guidance it's
usually like they give a very narrow
range in terms of Revenue sometimes even
a few Millions over a billion which
other industry can offer such prediction
and guidance let me ask just one more
Niche question on this and then don't
want to get into Ai and multiproduct and
stuff but when we started working when
we were all started getting OD on SAS we
thought nrr was his lighthous lighthouse
metric right and then to some extent it
became grr like how many of your
customers do you keep right and Monday
is like top death for both but what I
hear from every this big backlog to go
public in late State set is there
Founders are being pushed on how durable
your Revenue are is yeah everyone got
burned when they saw folks that had 120
130% nrr in 2021 and now it's a 100 or
something and so what have you learned
on durabil is that a right metric how do
you me do you have a way to measure
durability and and how are you being
asked about this how are you thinking
about durability because clearly you've
got it that maybe the consistency that I
described is durability right yeah so
first of all like I agree nrr and cost
detention are two key metrics they're
Often by the way Leed indicators because
know you sum it you sum up like the last
12 months what's going to happen in the
next 12 months that it's a good question
but I think it's a great metric
especially as you scale once once you
reach a billion if you want to grow 30%
the majority of Revenue is going to come
from your existing base no matter how
efficient your marketing is and we have
a very efficient marketing engine but
yes but just how meth works most of the
revenue is going to come from your
existing base so having a good ndr it's
it's not a benefit it's a requirement if
you want to continue and scale as as
your grower business maybe I can share
some perspectives for one is we have our
highest cross attention ever I would say
currently the cross attention of the
company given the economy given
everything that happening in the world
uh just to give people contact like we
see cost attention go going up actually
once you find a great use case with your
customers they want to stay even longer
and expand their usage so definitely
there's opportunity uh to increase that
and look I think there's no magic here
it's a lot of hard work uh eventually it
boils down to going up Market selling
for larger customers being a more
critical role play a more critical role
Ro in their stack and how they do
business and you have to check all those
boxes having a great user interface
having a great product it's important
it's critical but that's not enough if
you want to scale you have to grow
business and support those kind of
customers otherwise it's just not going
to happen yeah let me ask you a related
question because I have you this is one
I think about all the time and I think
it's hard you've got 3200 bigger
customers 50k and 100K they're growing
45% for 100k right so I have to imagine
half the conversations in the hallway at
Monday are about the 100K customers
right it has to be right and it's even
more than that because they have your
nrr is not as variable as some but
they're still the highest nrr right and
they buy the most products right so as a
Founder how do you make sure the small
guys get enough attention I see the
small guys honestly between us and
anyone else watching or listening I see
a lot of leaders abandoning the small
businesses a lot of the products we we
use especially the the simp the ones
that have the slacks like I I love slack
but I haven't seen it evolve in six
years okay Zoom I love Zoom but all the
energy is in the Enterprise right how do
you force the team how do you take care
of the small guys when you're going more
Enterprise I I don't think any few are
doing this well so how do you do it wow
it's an amazing question because I think
that's something that a lot of companies
are in my opinion might be getting wrong
I think a lot of companies intuition is
we're going to move up market so AB
abandon the SNB midmarket segment
because you do the math and you say oh
I'm spending that amount of effort on
closing those deals getting those
customers on board I might as well
invest time in the larger customers
because then become more cost efficient
but I think that that might be a big
mistake because eventually and I've seen
this in so many kind of Veteran SAS
companies what happens is eventually you
abandon the midmarket SM SMB segment and
then you have this huge vacuum you leave
a huge vacuum in the market I think to
some extent I'm not an expert but that
what happened with Salesforce and
HubSpot Salesforce moved up Market in a
way HubSpot saw this huge vacuum in the
market and ho and behold they captured a
lot of the midmarket SMB segment of that
specific Market even more now they have
a majority of that segment yeah but
that's that's the thing people don't
realize that the the snbs and mid Market
of today are the Enterprise of tomorrow
so they they getting used to use another
product they're getting used to use
another platform and eventually they
become the Enterprise companies and then
those Enterprise companies those S
companies that move off Market leave
that vacuum and eventually I think over
time just become Irrelevant in a way and
I feel that the fact that we cater both
first of all I think it's aote as a
company because you don't leave like a
vacuum in your market for other players
to come in and capture that market I
also feel it keeps you humble and keeps
you focused on the user experience on
great creating a great product on
creating great onboarding for your
customers and and I think Enterprise
customers eventually benefit from that
as well so I think it's a win situation
so you ask me all the energy wants to go
closing the bit especially the GTM teams
right but product too how do you do it
so first as management as CEO as
co-founder you need to make this
decision and be very specific about it
because if you say to everybody in the
team we need to focus on Enterprise
accounts everybody get that message and
just move on so we we're consistent with
our message we want to do both we want
to do be bid market and Enterprise and
we also invest our time with the with
the growth team with the design teams
with the ux team because we show we
demonstrate to everybody it's important
and then we measure that we we measure
the the go to market with the sale theme
and so on but also we measure the sell
serve uh their extension their usage and
so on so overall like we invest a lot of
resources and time and energy on both
fronts and and everybody in the company
get that method and and everybody
understand it's a cocktail of customers
that we want to serve over time
are there roughly in sales and marketing
or GTM are there roughly three teams
like small medium and large is it all
one team in terms of these motions or
yeah so currently we have like strategic
accounts Enterprise midmarket and SM SMB
that's how we so you got the classic
breakup do you just because I think so
everyone gets this almost everyone gets
this wrong do you as a CEO do you give
them budgets cash story points features
like you say listen I don't want the SMB
to get ignored I'm going to give you 20%
of the product budget are do you get
that granular or how do you manage those
pieces uh we have some percentages
allocation but but I think it's mainly
the the message for management and what
we care about and how we behave in
meetings and how we yeah kind of split
our time which really conveys the
message to everybody uh and the DNA of
the company and um and like I said
eventually in a product like ours you
want Enterprise customers to use it on a
day-to-day basis So eventually it boils
down to the same things great user
experience great usage you care about
usage and retention and so on so I
really see it as a win although it's you
have to focus on two things which is
always hard in a way yeah I love to hear
it let's talk about AI next but
definitely if you build this mode and
you really and you do it for real not
for pretend the Enterprise customers
totally benefit because the products
that are Enterprise only are never as
easy to they're not even remotely as
easy to use they never are right the
onboarding is humans always do the
onboarding right humans do the
Integrations humans do this and if you
have a 500K deal throw a couple people
at it it's logical why would you build
the world's best onboarding solution or
self proc self- procurement self
onboarding what if you could put a
person on it your engineering team would
kill you put put a person on that I'm
gonna go build this complicated
Enterprise workflow yeah definitely
agree so it's special if you do it all
right the competition can't do it okay
so I want to make sure let's talk about
AI in the real world and I bet if we
have this conversation in a year it's
going to be pretty different yeah it's
going to be pretty different right if it
was a year ago it would probably be out
experiments but you're just rolling out
a lot of your functionality right I want
to talk about it but before we get there
what both smaller and larger customers
what are they actually asking for if
anything you have a diverse customer
base it's real world it's not full of
techies and twitterers what are they
what are they asking you for an AI if
anything yeah maybe on a Brother
perspective I think it's very
interesting time just before we started
recording you said things are changing
so quickly right now and I could I
couldn't agree more every few months
there's a new announcement new ology
it's hard to keep up and I think there's
a lot of noise right now uh in the Sass
industry everybody's for example talk
about AI uh I I think a lot of the
things people talk about are things that
customers might be using or new fatures
they going to be introducing but to see
like real UI AI usage in the real world
like I think it's still a process for a
lot of our customers and for a lot of
other assassinators so may maybe I'll
show a little bit of our journey so yeah
I would say in the last year we've been
experimenting with a lot of AI features
and functionality and I think eventually
we managed to find like the I would say
product Market fit for AI in our product
and we just came off from our earning
call about a week and a half ago and
something that we sh with investors is
that we launch AI blocks uh and we
actually saw more than 17 million uh AI
actions in the product in the last few
months so definitely it feels like we
found the use case for a lot of our
customers and I think something that
might be a little bit unique in how we
we've done it is that I think a lot of
companies are trying to build new
features uh with AI and I think here
there's a lot of friction customers need
to adopt new technology they need to
change how to use the product and we
went back to our Playbook uh of Monday
which is we want to make technology
available for our customers we want to
make them more efficient and then when
we translated that back into the product
essentially instead of for for you them
to use AI or create a new feature for
them we just said we're going to help
you automate a lot of what you already
do uh with Monday or in your business
using AI so everybody's using AI with
money in a different way uh but we just
made it accessible for them uh people
are using AI on a personal basis but
when it com to their business I think
it's it's still a big question mark how
I'm going to implement that and that's
our approach same way we've done with
automations or any other technology uh
so our customers are adoped that they're
putting that into the boards for
workflows and the adoption is through
the roof so we're very happy with the
usage and actually last week we also
announced as part that we're launching
our pricing for AI and also here we had
a debate should we do it per seat should
we do it on consumption basis and
eventually we made the decision to
charge per consumption and not tied to
the seat model because I think that if
this going to be widely successful maybe
some of our customers would not hire as
many people as they plan to so maybe we
should probably be charging them usage
and AI deployment as opposed to add like
additional charge per receipt just to
share some of our thoughts around this
for sure if you look at Pure Play
contact center vendors right A lot of
them have seen 20% seat reductions in a
year due to AI 20% across the board
right so it's very it from a business
model perspective it's a it's an
interesting one in a heads scratcher
right because if is it's not could
happen in every vertical every use case
but contact center was so early to AI
that you've already seen yeah we've
driven acvs up with a lot of vendors
that are pure Play 50 generally they
report about 50% increase in ACV but 20%
reduction in C can
yeah so I'll tell you what I tell me
what you think I and and I and feel free
to challenge me on this but the rate of
changes so fast right I think in 18
months we may not be able to charge at
all
because whenever yeah because there has
to be a core set of software that I get
with my seat you can't charge me for
login you can't charge me for there's
certain things that have to come and
right now it seems like a a feature now
maybe it's built in like with Monday and
it's easy to use and you don't there's
not a lot of business process change but
I think there may come a time quickly
the world changes quickly that this is
like a single sign on or or login like I
it Monday just H because it's automation
3.0 like I just in and and so I think
we're in we don't know I don't think we
know where all this pricing and stuff's
going to land yeah I think there's a few
questions behind it one is the cost of
using those apis I think here also
there's there's so many different paths
this can go through and and you see some
companies release like free to use
models some charge for their API but I
think eventually for SAS companies so I
definitely agree on on SSO or any other
features but if it's a feature that
directly tied to the value you deliver
it has to come with some sort of pricing
otherwise does it I've listen yeah maybe
we'll come more to become more of a
commodity I just don't know I just think
it's just when we talk I love what you
said when we talk about snbs and midm
Market especially I think AI in many
cases is automation 2.0 it's okay you
have automation now I want to do
automation with no work right but man in
plain English yeah plain English but
when we look when I look at what I get
for 20 bucks from Claude for 20 bucks a
month I'm like I wonder what a customers
are that are paying more than that are
going to expect from SAS in a year I
feel like it makes sass overpriced but I
get so much from Claud or open AI for 20
bucks yeah but I think there's a big
difference between using it on a
personal basis for yourself and using it
across organization think yeah that
that's the big question behind it okay
so last one on the AI it's it's good and
then I want to just spend a couple
minutes on multiproduct before run out
of time you said 17 million actions
right over the last uh six months or so
right yeah six months yeah what are what
give me just to get some what are like
the number one or number two most used
actions automations through AI they're
using what's the 10x AI use case I would
say the most common one we saw is
processing unstructured information so I
think a lot of companies are working
with unstructured data I'll give you a
few examples one let's say CV screening
you have a HR team uh we for example we
get about almost 100,000 CVS a month
okay uh for new candidates un
processable everybody every CV is in a
different format uh different design
yeah uh you can predict what the
information is going to be you cannot
automate this but using Monday ni you
can extract information not just you
know basic information like the person
email or name but actually we have you
can have a prompt within Monday saying
oh sum up the amount of experience this
person has working in SAS companies you
write that in in plain English and two
seconds you get a reply no need to go
into the CV another thing you can ask is
how senior this person is based on their
experience and you define the criteria
again playing English so you turn CV
screening of 100,000 people a month from
being a few
thousands work to a few seconds same
goes for going through invoices rfps
images PDFs you name it a lot of
unstructured data that businesses go
through and analyze every day on huge
amounts and I think that's one use case
which is a classic AI usage that will
just become a,x more efficient for most
businesses big or
yeah yeah the unstructured data it's all
we've been able to do before AI was get
a little bit of structure around it
maybe there's some fields that have been
inputed maybe we can do some basic text
level search right but a lot of
unstructured data into it's almost
unusable too much of it there's too much
of it right it's distr it's too much
right it is it's less the folks you hear
Aon Levy and others talking about this
because it's all they do right but it it
is under discussed how disruptive this
is for Real businesses isn't it yeah
yeah and it just doesn't have just to be
files it can be conversation Zoom calls
whatever any format any medium yeah
these note takers are just a tiny bit of
where we're gonna
be all right just before we run out of
time there's a bunch of things I'd love
to chat about but because you're
expanding here multi-product and I think
your newest products or service
management yeah CRM as it is still
relatively new but growing Gang Busters
right 108% I think I want to talk about
those but before we do two questions how
do you pick where what industries to go
into and honestly and because Monday has
done the second one how do you make sure
they're all
great for real not for pretend but when
you have so many how many core products
does Monday have now four four four core
okay so we're going from so service
manage I get a little confused on the on
the we got the Work Management CRM
service and Dev those are the M okay
okay okay and I get it but how do you so
so when you go to four and then you're
think about how do you make them all
great and how did you pick service
management just for for for learning so
maybe before we dive in I I just I know
you've been talking this for for a long
time and I've seen some of your tweets I
cannot stress this enough for other
Founders go multiproduct that's critical
for future success yeah I don't know
what's the best timing to do that I
think you you're advocated to do this
earlier in the journey uh I think we've
done it Rel relatively late uh in our
journey but if you want to scale a
company past a billion and even two
billion you have to go multiproduct
there's no other way you can do it so
the sooner the better because you have
more time to learn more time to improve
and so on and another thing I want to
share with the people listening to this
every product is different so it's not
just the UI it's different go to markets
different buyers different Sal Cycles
it's not just about the technology each
product have a different way that people
buy it and and as a company you know
goes multiproduct you discover all the
those things and you discover that on
some products it's easier to do cross
sell on some it's harder to do cross
sell because so I'll give you an example
I've show this during our last earning
call we just recently released Monday
service and what we found is that we
have a big overlap not just in the use
case between mind service and work
management but also in terms of the
buyer which is as important as the use
case so usually the person who buys Work
Management is the CIO coo same goes for
mind service so you got ion you got the
relationship and it just make it easier
uh when you do cross sale and that's
another Factor you need to take into
account like who's the buyer what's the
sale cycle who made the decision is
there overlap with the use case overlap
with the buyer there many uh different
aspects to it do you find if you're if
it's the if service if service
Management's easier because it's the
same buyer um do you worry at all that
you'll fatigue the budget no because
it's different departments it's
different budget for compan
and you ask you ask me like how do you
choose I think in our case it's might be
a little bit easier because of the
nature of the platform because it's so
flexible we actually uh a lot of the
products we just created were based on
what our customers were already doing uh
with the platform
sorry uh we saw them using Monday as a
service tool we saw them using Monday as
a CRM so that's L to makeing those
products makes sense you saw what they
were hacking already right and
formalized it in in new discret
products yeah exactly and this is was
really helpful for us to pick those
products but I think you mentioned CRM
like we had great momentum with CRM and
we're super proud of the growth and it's
actually growing faster than what Monday
did back in the day which is pretty
impressive yeah we can end on that I
totally get it but broadly speaking CRM
is the one of the oldest and most
crowded categories right and I would
imagine and so your smallest customers
they might have nothing right but as you
get just a little bigger there's some
conflict with another vendor right
there's some conflict right which so why
is it working at that level because it's
not Green Field in some cases right yeah
so I would say it boil boils down to two
main reasons yeah one which I think is a
little bit
underestimated is the flexibility of the
Monday platform people when they buy
whether it's a CRM or a service software
or whatever it is
I think the SMB segment usually or the
midm market segment um is usually the
players are what I refer to is rigid
software it's software that you know
probably have a great user interface but
it's very hard to customize and if you
want to further customize it you have to
go Enterprise you have to buy like the
big Enterprise companies that offer like
100% flexibility but the problem there
the cost of doing it and the complexity
of doing that in those Enterprise
companies is far greater than any other
platforms we offer The Best of Both
Worlds you can customize Monday to
Infinity basically uh but it's easy to
use and you can do it yourself so that's
reason number one uh why we win in a lot
of those categories and the second one
which is a a big part of our strategy
going forward and also I think maybe a
little bit underestimated is that people
want to connect uh between the different
softwares I think softwares today uh
inherently create silos within the
organization somebody have access to
Salesforce usually usually the sales
team the marketing team or the product
team doesn't have access same goes for
zendesk or any other sass tool you're
using and then you essentially create
CES of information uh between different
teams uh just the nature of using
different S tools and people when they
buy multiple products from Monday and
because it's kind of multiple products
for different departments they love the
fact that data flows between different
products they love the fact that they
create a dashboard they show them a
picture of what's going on all the way
from the server to the Work Management
to the serum tool and I think over time
as we scale those products and gain more
momentum in Enterprise companies we'll
be able to sell bundles of those
products and people will buy the Monday
brand hopefully uh but that's about
where we had it yeah I think that's a
great point I think we there's been a
lot of discussion about platforms versus
standalone vendors as there's been
consolidation but I think it's not
really that it's that if you could have
it all work on one platform you'd want
to who in the right mind wants to now
sometimes you have to and Monday got
started as a point solution we all
because you had something special right
and so it's not an either or but no one
in their right mind wants 11 vendors
especially today when it's harder to get
them to integrate when prices are up
everywhere right when it's a why would
you want that as a rational and
especially now that AI becomes more
dominant you want AI to have more access
to more information across the different
products and you get more benefit uh
from that so definitely and and because
of that you don't necessarily have to
have the best CRM in the world it might
be second place but because of that
integration and because of that data
flows between the different products you
get such huge benefit from that that
it's a huge advantage over any other
kind of player in that industry yeah
that's the meta line that you've crushed
which is okay listen if you have all the
data and it flows across all of your
products maybe it doesn't have to be
absolute the best it just needs to be
top deile finding that being honest
about where that line is I think it's
complicated yeah it's complicated right
yeah your CRM is growing faster than
Monday ever did but it took HubSpot a
long time to get going it was free for
years so that they could get a robust
enough product to even charge for it
right they tiptoed into that line
carefully right and then blew past it
it's but you have to got to at least be
honest about that line
right yeah I think you have to be honest
and again it's it's a journey so it
doesn't have to be perfect when you it's
not going to be perfect when you release
the first version but I think the the
point here is that you release it you
iterate you improve the go to market you
improve the Sal cycle you build
organization to support it which is
moving from a single product to multi
product that changes the whole
organization but once you do it Monday
today would be a completely different
company if we have an implemented this
strategy and we didn't have a
multiproduct uh lineup we would probably
worth an eighth of what it is probably
worth an eighth of what is yeah I don't
know what it would be worse but maybe
yeah less I'm not sure how much but I'm
so happy we've done it and I think all
sound they want to scale past that point
have to go through that route yeah Aron
this was great I know we are out of time
but thank you very much and let's let's
do a deep dive on AI in about 12 months
I'm really sure what we're gonna learn
together awesome and thanks for having
me Jason always the be part of the
community thank you thank you thank you